## Simple Explanation

You might have heard some of the simple explanation for seasickness: a conflict between the *expected* and the *actual* state of motion. Or: a difference between what *you see* and what your internal gyroscopes (ears) *perceive*.

These are true but not complete explanations. Therefore, we can't derive from those the tools that we need in order to master seasickness.

## WIP

Expected: somewhere along the mast, pointing downward, perpendicular to the deck.

Perceived: some degrees (5° - 90°) different from that. The more, the worse.

Conflicting information between *expected* and *perceived* always makes us feel bad, in some way or another. In the case of such vital information as gravity, it causes one in the group of motion-sickness symptoms. On a boat we call it sea-sickness.

## Simple Cure

A commonly known cure is watching the horizon. It is simple and it works without understanding the cause of sea-sickness. Bingo.

However, this cure does not apply when you can't see the horizon: at night or below deck. It also fails when you are busy with doing something that requires your full attention, like handling rope or navigating on a map. Or even worse, a combination: working at the chart desk or changing your clothes below deck.

We need a better cure.

## More Complex Cause Analysis

So most people believe that the cause of sea-sickness is this conflicting information and you can't do much about it. 

It is more complex than that. Sorry for that. Or fortunately, because a deeper understanding of the causes opens the door for cure and total prevention of sea-sickness, at least in my limited experience.
